# 002. Packages and Modules

---

### **Recall**

**Packages**

**Modules**

**Main function**

### **Notes**

- `Packages` are how Go organizes your code. Even the built-in functions provided by the [`standard library`](https://pkg.go.dev/std) are structured as packages
    - Every Go file is bound to a package, and every Go application must have at least a `main` package. The `main` package will be used as the entry point of the application
    - Packages can be spread across multiple files, and more than one package can be used in the same application
    - To create a package, use the keyword `package` followed by the package name. Use the same package name across different files to split it
    - To import a package, use the keyword `import` followed by the name of the package or a list of packages
- Modules are the actual Go application compiled into machine code.
    - To initiate a module, use:
    
    ```bash
    go mod init module-path/module-name
    ```
    
    - To create the compiled application, use:
    
    ```bash
    go build
    ```
    
    This will search for the `main` package in your Go files and create the application from there
    
    - After that, imports of local packages should contain the module path, like:
    
    ```bash
    module-path/module-name/your-package
    ```
    
    - When using modules, every function you want to export must be capitalized. Just as `fmt.Println`, your functions should be capitalized if you want them to be used in other packages

---

<aside>
📌

Go is a compiled static typed language developed by Google and published as an open-source project in 2009. It becomes a popular language for offering high performance while preserving simple syntax bundled by a powerful standard library. 

Because of its features, Go has become the main choice for developing microservices, networking applications and CLI tools for both cybersecurity and DevOps.

</aside>