# 003. Data types, Variables and Constants

---

### **Recall**

**Variables**

**Primitive Data Types**

**Go Inferred type**

**Short declaration**

**Constants**

### **Notes**

- `Variables` in Go work as they do in any other language: they store values
    - To declare a variable, use the `var` keyword
    
    ```go
    var foo = "bar"
    ```
    
    - Variables names follow the `camelCase` convention
    - You also can declare multiple variables on the same line:
    
    ```go
    var foo, bar, year = "foo", "bar", 2025
    ```
    
    - A variable can assume a multiple [`data types`](https://go.dev/ref/spec#Types), but these are the most common:
        - int: Whole numbers (no decimal places)
        - float64: Numbers with decimal places
        - string: A sequence of characters
        - rune: An alias for int32, used for representing single Unicode characters
        - bool: Represents true or false
        - nil: Unlike other languages, Go doesn’t have a primitive null type. Instead of null, Go provides zero-values, which are the default value assigned to variables that are not explicitly initialized
    - **Go infers the data type** based on the assigned value
    
    ```go
    var randomText = "place something" // string
    var randomNum = 43 // int
    var randomFloat = 53.1 // float64
    var randomChar = 'a' // rune as an alias to int32
    var randomBool = false // bool
    ```
    
    - To explicitly define a type, specify it after the variable name
    
    ```go
    // Even if its a integer value, 
    // Go will treat this variable as float64
    var randomNum float64 = 43
    ```
    
    - Other way to override the inferred type for numbers is by adding a decimal point, forcing it to be recognized as float64
    
    ```go
    var randomNum = 43.0
    ```
    
    - If the inferred type is correct, you can use the shorthand syntax:
    
    ```go
    // No need to use 'var'
    year := 2025 // int
    ```
    
    - You can also declare multiple variables using this shorthand, but all variables must have the same inferred type
    
    ```go
    day, month, year := 21, 03, 2025
    ```
    
- `Constants` are fixed-value variables that cannot be modified after assignment, similar to other programming languages.
    - To declare a constant, use the `constant` keyword
    
    ```go
    const birthDate = "01/01/1999"
    ```
    
    - It’s common to declare constants globally. To do that, just create your constant above the main function
    
    ```go
    const pi = 3.14
    
    func main() {
    	// ...
    }
    ```
    

---

<aside>
📌

In Go, variables are used to store values and follow the **camelCase** naming convention. They can be declared using the `var` keyword or more concisely with `:=`, which allows type inference. Additionally, multiple variables can be declared on the same line as long as their types are compatible.

Go has a strict type system and does not support null values like other languages. Instead, each type has a **zero-value**, representing its default state when uninitialized. Some of the most common types include `int` for whole numbers, `float64` for decimal numbers, `string` for text, `rune` as an alias for `int32` to represent single characters, and `bool` for boolean values (`true` or `false`).

Although Go infers the type of a variable based on its assigned value, it is also possible to specify the type explicitly. For numbers, adding decimal places forces the interpretation as `float64`. Since Go does not allow operations between different numeric types without explicit conversion, type casting must be done manually when necessary.

Besides variables, Go also allows the definition of **constants**, which are immutable values that cannot be changed after assignment. Constants are declared using the `const` keyword and function similarly to variables but remain fixed throughout execution.

</aside>