# 004. IO Operations

---

### **Recall**

**Package fmt**

**Input**

**Output**

### **Notes**

- In Go, IO operations are handled by the `fmt` package, which provides most of the functions responsible for inputting and outputting data.
    - To output data, you can use `fmt.Printl` or `fmt.Println`. The only difference between them is that `fmt.Println` adds a new line after printing the message.
    
    ```go
    fmt.Print("Hello, ")
    fmt.Println("World!")
    // Hello, World!
    ```
    
    - To take a value as input from the user, you can use `fmt.Scan`
    
    ```go
    var name string
    fmt.Print("User name: ")
    fmt.Scan(&name)
    fmt.Println("Hello,"name)
    ```
    
    - Similar to C’s `scanf`, `fmt.Scan` uses pointers to assign the input value to the variable. To use pointers, you need to pass the address of the variable with the `&` symbol.
    - While `fmt.Scan` is a good option for simple input, it has limitations when dealing with multiple words or phrases containing spaces. To handle this, `fmt.Scanln` can be used, as it reads input until a newline is encountered.
    - For more complex input, especially with multiple lines, the `bufio` package can be used to handle input more efficiently.

---

<aside>
📌

In Go, input and output operations are handled by the `fmt` package. To display data, you can use `fmt.Print` and `fmt.Println`, with the latter adding a newline at the end.

To capture user input, `fmt.Scan` is used, working similarly to C’s `scanf` by assigning values to variables using pointers (`&variable`). However, `fmt.Scan` does not handle multiple words separated by spaces well. In such cases, `fmt.Scanln` can be a better option as it reads input until a newline.

For more complex input handling, such as multiple lines, the `bufio` package provides more efficient tools.

</aside>