# 005. Text Formatting

---

### **Recall**

**Outputting values**

**Value Formatting**

**String Formatting**

### **Notes**

- To output a value in Go, you can use the `fmt.Print` or `fmt.Printl` functions, as shown previously:

```go
bar := "bar"
fmt.Println("Foo", bar)
// Foo bar
```

- in Go, as in C, Java, and C#, you use double quotes for printing strings. Single quotes are typically used for individual characters. Another way to print text is by using backticks (`), which allow you to preserve line breaks and formatting

```go
bar := "bar"
fmt.Println(`Foo
`, bar)
//    Foo
// bar
```

- When printing floating-point numbers, it's often useful to control the number of decimal places for better readability. Go provides `fmt.Printf` for that purpose

```go
bar := 193.3215
fmt.Printf("Foo %v", bar)
// Foo 193.3215
```

- Similar to C, `fmt.Printf` uses **format specifiers** (also called *verbs*) to define how values should be displayed. The `%v` verb is a generic placeholder, but Go offers specific verbs for different data types

```go
bar := 193.3215
fmt.Printf("Foo %.2f", bar)
// Foo 193.32
```

- `%.xf` is the standard format for floating-point numbers, where `x` determines the number of decimal places.
- If you need to create a formatted string, you can use `fmt.Sprint`. This allows you to generate a formatted string and print it later, without formatting it directly in `fmt.Print`. The `fmt` package also provides variations like `Sprintln` and `Sprintf`, which work similarly to their `Print` counterparts but return the formatted string instead of printing it immediately

```go
value := 193.3215
bar := fmt.Sprintf("%.2f", value)
fmt.Println("Foo", bar)
// Foo 193.32
```

---

<aside>
📌

In Go, values are printed using the `fmt.Print` and `fmt.Println` functions. Strings are enclosed in double quotes, while single quotes are used for individual characters. Backticks can also be used to preserve line breaks and formatting. For floating-point numbers, `fmt.Printf` allows control over decimal places using format specifiers, such as `%.2f` to display two decimal places. If you need to create a formatted string without printing it immediately, you can use `fmt.Sprint`, `fmt.Sprintf`, or `fmt.Sprintln`, which work similarly to their `Print` counterparts but return the formatted string instead of displaying it directly

</aside>