# 006. Functions

---

### **Recall**

**Defining Functions**

**Parameters**

**Return type**

**Returning multiple values**

### **Notes**

- Just like in any other language, Go functions are reusable blocks of code.
- Functions are usually defined after the `main` function.
- To define a function, use the `func` keyword:

```go
func foo() {
	// do something...
}
```

- A Go function can receive parameters, and they must be typed.
    - To type a parameter, simply specify the wanted type like you would do to a variable
    
    ```go
    func foo(foo string, bar string) {
    	// do something...
    }
    ```
    
    - If multiple parameters share the same type, a shorthand notation can be used:
    
    ```go
    func foo(foo, bar string) {
    	// do something...
    }
    ```
    
- Every Go function must specify a return type
    - The return type is defined after the parameter list:
    
    ```go
    func foo(foo, bar string) string {
    	// ...
    }
    ```
    
    - If no return type is specified, the function does not return any value
    - Go allows functions to return multiple values
        - To return multiple values, specify their types inside parentheses:
        
        ```go
        func foo() (string, string) {
        	foo := "foo"
        	bar := "bar"
        	return foo, bar
        }
        ```
        
        - Another feature when returning multiple values is declaring the return variables directly in the function signature, eliminating the need for an explicit `return` statement:
        
        ```go
        func foo() (foo string, bar string) {
        	foo = "foo"
        	bar = "bar"
        	return
        }
        ```
        
        - Since the variables are created in the function signature, their types do not need to be explicitly defined again.
        - When receiving values from a function that returns multiple values, you must specify as many variables as the returned values:
        
        ```go
        foo, bar := foo()
        ```
        

---

<aside>
📌

In Go, functions are reusable blocks of code that are typically defined after the `main` function. They are declared using the `func` keyword, followed by the function name and parentheses. Functions can take parameters, which must be explicitly typed. If multiple parameters share the same type, a shorthand notation allows defining them without repeating the type. Every function must specify a return type, which is placed after the parameter list. If no return type is defined, the function does not return a value. Go also supports returning multiple values by specifying their types inside parentheses. Additionally, functions can declare return variables directly in their signature, allowing the omission of an explicit `return` statement. When receiving multiple return values, the caller must provide the same number of variables as the function returns.

</aside>